# Capture Events

**Keywords:** architecture, design

**Participants:** Manuel Hatzl

## Event Flow

**Default Flow:**

1. An intermediary event is set at any point during program execution, containing the event-ID and message
1. The intermediary event-entry gets a unique UUID, because an event-ID may be set multiple times, but each entry is unique
1. **Optional:** Additional content may be added to the intermediary event-entry
1. Once the intermediary event is *finalized* by going out of scope, or manually using `finalize()`, it is converted to an event, and sent to the event handler using `std::sync::mpsc::sync_channel`
1. The event handler receives the event, and forwards the event to all subscribers listening to the event, again using `std::sync::mpsc::sync_channel`, but now one channel per subscriber
1. Every subscriber receives the event, and may react to it

**Capturing Stopped:**

1. An intermediary event is set at any point during program execution, containing the event-ID and message
1. The intermediary event-entry gets a unique UUID, because an event-ID may be set multiple times, but each entry is unique
1. **Optional:** Additional content may be added to the intermediary event-entry
1. Once the intermediary event is *finalized* by going out of scope, or manually using `finalize()`, it is converted to an event
1. If capturing is stopped, the event is not sent, but available in the thread the event was manually *finalized*

**Global Filter:**

Same steps as above, with the addition that the event is only sent to the event handler if the filter allows it.

## Why *mpsc::sync_channel*?

With *sync_channel*, it is possible to send events without blocking the sending thread on every `send()`, because a send-buffer can be set per channel.

## Why the indirection with the event handler?

The *std* library only offers *multiple producer single consumer* channels for now, but there might be multiple subscribers (consumers) listening for events.

Other crates offering *multiple consumer* channels, forwarded events to the first *consumer* that receives the event.
This is also not acceptable, because every subscriber must receive the event.

While the indirection might be a bottleneck, the approach makes it possible to stick with *std*, which reduces the number of dependencies.

## Event Handler

The event handler is moved in its own thread, continuously blocking until the next event is received.

```rust
while let Ok(event) = handler.recv() {
    // forward event to subscriber
}
```

**Caveat:** Because `recv()` blocks the thread until an event is received, the event handler only reacts to events.
